I will discuss an on-going project to develop a database of Roman temples (where "Roman" means "in Rome" and "in the Roman empire") that contains geographical and other data about these structures. While many such temples are included in existing databases, like Pleiades, others are not, and typically these other databases are more general purpose and so do not contain the detailed kinds of relevant information one might like to have (such as architectural style). As with other architectural forms, many questions about temples revolve around their geographical setting and orientation, so mapping the temples is an important part of our work.

In order not to duplicate work, we have started by working with the data already to be found in existing databases, typically available under licenses that allow such re-use. Our intention is to give back to these same databases when we find errors or are able to fill in missing information in their records. This has so far been exclusively ad-hoc, and one issue for us is how to automate or at least regularize how this happens.

The project grows out of my research interests in Roman temples and their location in the city of Rome, as well as my teaching needs. I regularly teach an introductory course in Greek and Roman archaeology where temples of course appear prominently. I also have been incorporating digital-humanities (DH) topics and techniques into my teaching. This project allows me to show students how such projects are managed and to provide them with a low-barrier way to participate in a public project where they can see their work contribute to a larger effort than traditional assignments.

I am employed at a small liberal-arts college (SLAC) and teaching is not the only aspect of my work environment that has consequences for this project. Indeed the project first took shape last spring in the context of an university-wide effort to promote DH and to explore at how a SLAC could expand into this area. I was able to recruit an undergraduate student to work with me on it over the summer as part of a Mellon Foundation-funded DH "Institute" that included several other faculty-led projects, including another that involved mapping monuments in Rome (medieval and later shrines). I will therefore also address some of the challenges that arise from being at a SLAC, including a relative lack of research funding, graduate students, and technical-support staff. On the flip side, there have arisen numerous opportunities to learn and seek help from colleagues at other institutions, thanks to the usual social-media suspects like Twitter, and the increasing popularity of small, less formal meet-ups, like LAWDNY.
